(docs) - Debugging Documentation (#749)
FormidableLabs/urql: docs/advanced/debugging.md

---
title: Debugging
order: 6
---

# Debugging

> We've tried to make debugging in `urql` as seamless as possible by creating tools for both basic users and those trying to create their own exchanges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've tried to make debugging in `urql` as seamless as possible by creating tools for our users using urql and our users creating their own exchanges.
```

I'd avoid "basic" has a negative co-notation imo

## Debug events

> Debug events are a means for seeing what's going on inside of Urql exchanges. Before getting started, here are a few things to be aware of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debug events are a means for seeing what's going on inside of urql exchanges. Before getting started, here are a few things to be aware of.
```

### Anyone with client access can listen

This includes the creator of an `urql` client and any of it's exchanges (although the latter is not advised).

### Debug events are disabled in production

Debug events are a fire-and-forget mechanism and should not be used as a means for messaging in your app.

## Consuming debug events

> Debugging events can be inspected either graphically using our devtools or manually by subscribing to events on the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debugging events can be inspected either graphically using our [devtools](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/urql-devtools) or manually by subscribing to events on the client.
```

### Devtools

> The quickest way is going to be using our [devtools extension](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/urql-devtools/) which visualizes events on a timeline and provides tools to filter events, inspect the cache, and trigger custom querys via the running client.

Reviewer: Not sure but is the plural of query, queries?

Author: Yeah my bad!
```suggestion
The quickest way is going to be using our [devtools extension](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/urql-devtools/) which visualizes events on a timeline and provides tools to filter events, inspect the cache, and trigger custom queries via the running client.
```

![Urql Devtools Timeline](../assets/devtools-timeline.png)

Visit [the repo](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/urql-devtools/) for instructions on getting started.

> Note: Devtools is unfortunately not currently supported for React Native but we're looking into it!

### Manual consumption of events

For those not looking to use a GUI to view events, the client has a `subscribeToDebugTarget` function.

As demonstrated below, the `subscribeToDebugTarget` function takes a callback which is called with every debug event that is dispatched.

```ts
const { unsubscribe } = client.subscribeToDebugTarget(event => {
  if (event.source === 'dedupExchange') {
    return;
  }

  console.log(event);
});

// ...
// Unsubscribe from events
unsubscribe();
```

## Dispatching debug events

Debug events are a means of sharing implementation details to consumers of an exchange.

> ### Dispatching a debug event

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: We should give this title some content else we should delete it, no?

Author: Good spot!
